Audrey Pham
Professor Durie
Art 101-03
1 February 2022
Reading 1
Q1. Based on the Verostko article, what would be a good working definition of how any kind of artist can use an algorithm in their art.
Every artist has an individual style.  They can also have individual styles when it comes to coding algorithms.  Any kind of artist can use an algorithm in their art because when creating art, there is an artistic procedure that artists follow.  Using an algorithm, they can lay out a set of rules, instructions, or more procedures that must be followed in order to achieve their goals.  Decisions must be made and thoughts can be organized by following an algorithm.  
Q2. Give 3 specific examples of how you might already use algorithms in your own art work. Describe whether they are formal behaviors or more abstract.
The first example of how I use algorithms is a formal behavior. With related art pieces, I generally follow or outline certain rules to make the pieces cohesive.  For example, I had a series of paintings related to my mom’s journey from traditional Vietnamese culture to American culture.  The rules I used for these pieces were using certain colors only.  The only colors I decided I would use for the pieces were red and yellow for the representation of the Vietnamese side and red and blue to represent the American side. Another example would be in my coding art.  There are set rules that must be followed when coding in order for the work to come out correctly.  Otherwise, the programs will not run, and as a result, nothing will be created.  I have coded some Minecraft characters as well as Wii Mii characters using coding in p5js.  An abstract behavior of an algorithm I used could also be in my painting.  In abstract projects, any data, or forms created can be put onto the piece.  The only rule of that specific algorithm that must be followed is to create an abstraction.  As long as you can create an abstraction out of whatever you want to put on the piece, essentially anything goes.  
Q3. At the end of the Verostko article there is the example of the 'automatic' drawing being described as something that could be coded. They then describe this as in essence defining a working style. An artist's style. Do you think that algorithms can be defined in such a way to define an artist's style? Please explain your answer with an example of an artist you are familiar with.
Yes, algorithms can be defined in a way to define an artist’s style.  Though created through automation, art created through coded algorithms can show different styles through the pieces created.  One artist may create work with only thick stroke lines.  Another may create work using algorithms that only use one color or algorithms that only repeat things.  They could possibly only use certain shapes or only do things in a certain order.  An example of an artist like this is Jared S Tarbell.  Sorry, I could not think of artists I am already familiar with.   Many of his pieces, like “Tree Garden II,” feature the aspect of repetition to create unique trees.  Each branch is just a copy of the original tree created by his algorithm.  He creates one single image using his technology.  That is then replicated, possibly copy and pasted, and the process repeats.  
Q4. Look at the 8 artists/examples above and pick 4 or more of them that you can comment on. Specifically describe for each of the chosen 4, 'where' do you think the art 'is' and how would you talk about the process or tool of making the 'art' vs the art 'artifact' itself. For example, If an artist is using computers to generate art, where is the art? Is it in the software program or the product it makes? Please label each one, then elaborate on the question.
Pentametron: 												The Pentametron uses a Twitter bot that uses an algorithm to find iambic pentameter on Twitter to use and put together to create short poems.  One of the most interesting aspects of this algorithm bot is how it is able to search through the span of Twitter to find specific lines that could somehow fit together to create something with meaning, even when it acknowledges random topics, it could hold so much meaning for a single person.  The art is in the algorithm.  It is in the process of creating these poems.  The art is how this bot scours the internet in order to find random tweets that could form meaning when put together.  The art is in the search for meaning.  
Miguel Nóbrega SuperFície: 										An algorithm is used to tell the machine what to draw.  On the about page of the website, it states that the same algorithm is used for each piece, except for a slight adjustment, making every piece unique.  The machine takes the data from the code and draws different structures.  All of these structures feature boxy objects.  Something interesting about this is how the same general code is used over and over.  However, a simple change could lead it to create something entirely new.  The pieces all look related to each other, but they are all obviously different at the same time.  The art for this one is in the code.  The code is what creates the visual work.  The visuals are also art still.  However, the algorithm stands out more.  The repetitive use and simple adjustments provide deeper meaning into how small changes can lead to big effects.  
Microsoft Songsmith:										Microsoft Songsmith takes the voice that is singing and adds the background music to accompany the harmonies.  It generates beats and melodies to compliment the singing that is input into the program.  Many things can be adjusted, such as the genre of music, like jazz, hip hop, etc., as well as the tempo of the song.  The art is the music that the program creates.  It is art in the way that it finds a way to compliment the singer’s noise.  It is art because it learns how to create something cohesive.  In this perspective, the program and music are hand in hand in being where the art is found.  
Tree Garden II by Jared S Tarbell: 									The artist codes a computer program that takes one object, which is the tree limb, and repeats it over and over to create a much larger tree.  The trees created are all completely different, but each one is made up of itself.  The limb is the trunk of the tree.  Then, they are repeated until full branches are drawn up, producing a full looking tree.  The most interesting aspect of this is how one small object can turn into something huge or possibly even something unexpected just through the act of repetition.  The art is in the art of repetition, so within the piece.  It is that visual repetition that creates the art.  

